.TH MINIPRO-ZIG 1 "June 2026" "minipro-zig 0.1.0-dev" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
minipro-zig \- Zig port of the minipro CLI for XGecu/TL866-compatible programmers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B minipro-zig
.RI [ global-options ]
.I command
.RI [ command-options ]
.br
.B minipro-zig
.B -Q
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B minipro-zig
is a Zig port of the GPL minipro command-line tool. It imports upstream XML chip databases into SQLite, preserves common legacy aliases, and gates hardware-changing operations behind explicit execution flags.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --db " path"
Use an imported SQLite device database.
.TP
.BI --programmer " model"
.TP
.BI -q " model"
Select a programmer family: tl866a, tl866ii, t48, t56, t76, or auto.
.TP
.B --json
Emit JSON for commands that support it.
.TP
.B --verbose
Print extra diagnostics.
.TP
.B --quiet
Reduce nonessential output.
.TP
.B --help, -h
Show command help.
.TP
.B --version, -V
Show version information.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B programmer list
List supported programmer families.
.TP
.B programmer detect
Detect a connected programmer.
.TP
.B programmer info
Show connected programmer information.
.TP
.B db import --infoic path [--logicic path] [--algorithms path] --out path
Import upstream XML chip, logic, and optional T56/T76 algorithm databases into SQLite.
.TP
.B db stats
Show database summary counts.
.TP
.B db query sql
Run a read-only SQL query against the imported database.
.TP
.B device list
List devices from the imported database.
.TP
.B device search term
Search devices by alias or canonical name.
.TP
.B device info device
Show detailed information for a device.
.TP
.B chip read --device dev --out path [--format fmt] [--execute]
Plan or execute a chip read. Formats include bin, ihex, srec, config, and jedec.
.TP
.B chip read-id --device dev [--execute]
Plan or execute a chip ID read.
.TP
.B chip autodetect --package 8|16 [--execute]
Plan or execute SPI chip autodetection.
.TP
.B chip blank --device dev [--execute]
Plan or execute a blank check.
.TP
.B chip verify --device dev --in path [--format fmt] [--execute]
Plan or execute a chip verify.
.TP
.B chip erase --device dev [--execute] --confirm-destructive dev
Plan or execute a chip erase.
.TP
.B chip write --device dev --in path [--format fmt] [--execute] --confirm-destructive dev
Plan or execute a chip write.
.TP
.B chip protect|unprotect --device dev [--execute] --confirm-destructive dev
Plan or execute a protection change.
.TP
.B logic test --device dev [--execute]
Plan or execute a logic IC vector test.
.SH LEGACY ALIASES
.TP
.B -Q, --query_supported
List supported programmer families.
.TP
.B -k, --presence_check
Detect a connected programmer.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -r " file"
Read a chip into a file.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -w " file"
Write a file to a chip.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -m " file"
Verify a chip against a file.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -E
Erase a chip.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -P
Protect a chip.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -u
Unprotect a chip.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -D
Read a chip ID.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -b
Blank-check a chip.
.TP
.BI -p " dev " -T
Run a logic IC vector test.
.TP
.BI -a " 8|16"
Autodetect an SPI chip by package size.
.SH SAFETY
Chip operations are dry-runs unless the command documents and receives
.BR --execute .
Destructive operations also require
.BI --confirm-destructive " canonical-device"
with an exact device match.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
minipro-zig db import --infoic ~/repos/minipro/infoic.xml --logicic ~/repos/minipro/logicic.xml --out devices.sqlite
minipro-zig --db devices.sqlite -l -q t48
minipro-zig --db devices.sqlite -d 'M27C64A@DIP28' -q t48
minipro-zig --db devices.sqlite chip read-id --device 'M27C64A@DIP28' --programmer t48 --execute
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR minipro (1)
